>> Jen Kramer: Flexbox was
actually the very first
layout element that we were
given to work with in CSS.
Prior to that, as I said, we used
tables which were a hack for layouts,
we used floats which were a hack for
layouts, there was positioning which
always sort of had spotty support.
It was a really ugly period of time where
we tried to do things with positioning.
Especially those of you
who remember Macromedia,
Dreamweaver, chopping things up it
was a very ugly time, about 2005.
But moving on from that,
Flexbox has been around for a while now,
it's actually been around since 2009,
but it's had some issues [LAUGH].
Okay, so first of all, the way Flexbox
works, there's tow elements to this,
there's a parent and a child, we're gonna
talk a lot about the parents and children.
The parent is called a flex container,
and the child is called a flex item,
or you can think of them as rows and
cells, just like we just had with floats
where we had rows and cells, we have
flex containers and flex items, okay?
And both of these are required to work.
You can't just call Flexbox on
one element and magic happens.
You're gonna have a parent and a child,
they work together to make Flexbox work.
Flexbox is absolutely amazing
when it comes to vertical and
horizontal centering and heights.
There's no more equal height
problem that we had with floats,
does not exist in the Flexbox world, yay.
It automatically does all of that for
you, no JavaScript required.
It is super easy to reorder boxes,
which is one of the other
really wonderful things.
None of this relative positioning
nonsense and reordering with percents.
We can simply say, order 1,
order 2, order 3, it's great.
So, it's really super easy to reorder.
There are some big disadvantages
to working with Flexbox.
So, again,
remember that Flexbox as a grid system,
which is where we're headed,
is indeed a hack, okay?
I'm teaching it because it is everywhere.
It's pervasive throughout
the industry right now.
My philosophy is, if it's in Bootstrap,
you've got to know it.
And it's Bootstrap, it's in Bootstrap 4,
so you gotta know it.
Flexbox is not really designed
to be locked down for layouts.
It works in quote,
as we call it, one dimension.
What do we mean by one dimension?
Think about Flexbox as
being one continuous row.
One continuous row.
If you were to get some unknown
number of images coming from
some sort of database driven,
whatever, your Pinterest.
And you're getting all these images coming
in, you don't how many images you're gonna
have, but
you have to display them on a page.
Flexbox is a great way
to do this because it
will just wrap on to the next line as it
runs out of screen space indefinitely.
So, Flexbox is not really intended to be
locked down into rows the way that we
are actually gonna wind up doing it.
The browser support can be challenging.
I also find the syntax challenging.
So I believe in the next
folder that we're going to,
which is folder number two,
you will find a cheat sheet in there.
I'll point that out to you
when we go to those files.
The people here in the class
have it printed out.
So you may also want to print
out my little cheat sheet
that has what the parent and the child
properties are with those values.
I think you'll find that handy to
refer to as you work with Flexbox.
Okay, so here's some basic
terminology when it comes to Flexbox,
as we start to talk about it.
So, remember, flex containers, flex items.
So the flex container, the parent, has
many different values associated with it.
And we can think about it either as a row
or we can think about it as a column.
So flex container is thought of as
a column, we have flex items stacked on
top of each other, and then we might talk
about the main axis and the cross axis.
So the main axis matches the direction
of that flex container, so in this case,
the main axis would be vertical,
the cross axis would be horizontal.
Okay, this tends to be the exception as
we work with Flexbox as a grid system.
We typically don't lay out grids and
columns, we usually lay them out in rows.
So this is the way that we more
commonly think about Flexbox,
at least the way I think
about it in my world.
So the main axis would be the row,
the cross axis would be the column,
and these flex items are going to sit
next to each other just like this.